.TH FAVS 1 "January 2026" "favs" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
favs \- your bookmarks as context for AI assistants
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B favs
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B favs
.B serve
.br
.B favs
.B adapters
.br
.B favs
.B version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B favs
aggregates bookmarks from browsers and services, converting them to
structured formats for AI assistant reference.
.PP
Supported browsers:
.IP \(bu 2
Chrome, Edge, Chromium, Brave (all platforms)
.IP \(bu 2
Firefox (all platforms)
.IP \(bu 2
Safari (macOS only)
.PP
Output formats:
.IP \(bu 2
Markdown (textual, table, or YAML styles)
.IP \(bu 2
JSON
.IP \(bu 2
YAML
.IP \(bu 2
OPML (for import into other tools)
.IP \(bu 2
Netscape HTML (universal browser import format)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFILE\fR
Output file (default: stdout).
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-browser " " \fINAME\fR
Browser to use (default: first available).
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-profile " " \fINAME\fR
Profile name (default: Default or first found).
.TP
.BR \-\-all
Read from all available browsers and profiles.
.TP
.BR \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: markdown, json, yaml, opml, or html (default: markdown).
.TP
.BR \-\-style " " \fISTYLE\fR
Markdown style: textual, table, or yaml (default: textual).
.TP
.BR \-\-list
List available browser profiles and exit.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIFILE\fR
Configuration file (default: ./favs.yaml or ~/.favs/config.yaml).
.TP
.BR \-\-group
Group bookmarks by browser (default: true).
.TP
.BR \-\-metadata
Include metadata header (default: true).
.TP
.BR \-\-nested
Use nested list format (default: true).
.TP
.BR \-\-sort
Sort bookmarks alphabetically (default: false).
.TP
.BR \-\-input " " \fITYPE\fR
Input adapter type (default: auto-detect browsers). Use "opml" for OPML/HTML files.
.TP
.BR \-\-custom\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Custom path for file-based input adapters (e.g., OPML or HTML file).
.TP
.BR \-\-exclude\-protocols " " \fILIST\fR
Comma-separated list of URL protocols to exclude (default: data,javascript).
.TP
.BR \-\-warn\-protocols " " \fILIST\fR
Comma-separated list of URL protocols that trigger warnings (default: file,chrome,about,blob).
.TP
.BR \-\-max\-url\-length " " \fIN\fR
Exclude URLs longer than N characters (0 = no limit).
.TP
.BR \-\-warn\-url\-length " " \fIN\fR
Warn on URLs longer than N characters (default: 2048).
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output to stderr.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print usage information and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B serve
Run as an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server for AI assistant integration.
.TP
.B adapters
List all registered input and output adapters.
.TP
.B version
Print version, commit, and build date.
.SH EXAMPLES
Default browser, output to stdout:
.PP
.nf
.RS
favs
.RE
.fi
.PP
Write to file:
.PP
.nf
.RS
favs -o bookmarks.md
.RE
.fi
.PP
Specific browser and profile:
.PP
.nf
.RS
favs -b chrome -p "Profile 1"
.RE
.fi
.PP
All browsers and profiles:
.PP
.nf
.RS
favs --all
.RE
.fi
.PP
JSON output:
.PP
.nf
.RS
favs --format json
.RE
.fi
.PP
Markdown table format:
.PP
.nf
.RS
favs --style table
.RE
.fi
.PP
Export to OPML:
.PP
.nf
.RS
favs --format opml -o bookmarks.opml
.RE
.fi
.PP
Import from OPML or HTML file:
.PP
.nf
.RS
favs --input opml --custom-path bookmarks.opml
.RE
.fi
.PP
Run as MCP server:
.PP
.nf
.RS
favs serve
.RE
.fi
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is loaded from (in order of priority):
.IP 1. 3
\fB\-\-config\fR flag
.IP 2. 3
\fB./favs.yaml\fR (current directory)
.IP 3. 3
\fB~/.favs/config.yaml\fR
.PP
See \fBfavs.example.yaml\fR for all options.
.SH MCP SERVER
When running as an MCP server, favs exposes:
.SS Resources
.TP
.B favs://all
All bookmarks in JSON format.
.TP
.B favs://markdown
All bookmarks in Markdown format.
.TP
.B favs://<browser>
Bookmarks from a specific browser.
.SS Tools
.TP
.B sync_bookmarks
Refresh bookmarks from browsers.
.TP
.B search_bookmarks
Search bookmarks by title or URL.
.SH URL FILTERING
favs filters URLs by protocol and length to exclude problematic bookmarks.
.SS Default Exclusions
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdata:\fR \- Base64-encoded images can be 100KB+
.IP \(bu 2
\fBjavascript:\fR \- Bookmarklets are code, not links
.SS Default Warnings
.IP \(bu 2
\fBfile:\fR \- Local file paths
.IP \(bu 2
\fBchrome:\fR, \fBabout:\fR \- Browser internal pages
.IP \(bu 2
\fBblob:\fR \- Blob URLs
.IP \(bu 2
URLs longer than 2048 characters
.SH BOOKMARK LOCATIONS
.SS Chromium-based browsers (Chrome, Edge, Chromium, Brave)
.TP
.B Linux
~/.config/{google-chrome,microsoft-edge}/Default/Bookmarks
.TP
.B macOS
~/Library/Application Support/{Google/Chrome,Microsoft Edge}/Default/Bookmarks
.TP
.B Windows
%LOCALAPPDATA%\\{Google\\Chrome,Microsoft\\Edge}\\User Data\\Default\\Bookmarks
.SS Firefox
.TP
.B Linux
~/.mozilla/firefox/<profile>/places.sqlite
.TP
.B macOS
~/Library/Application Support/Firefox/Profiles/<profile>/places.sqlite
.TP
.B Windows
%APPDATA%\\Mozilla\\Firefox\\Profiles\\<profile>\\places.sqlite
.SS Safari (macOS only)
~/Library/Safari/Bookmarks.plist
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error (no bookmarks found, config error, etc.)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tee (1),
.BR jq (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/cloudygreybeard/favs/issues
.SH AUTHOR
cloudygreybeard
.SH LICENSE
Apache License 2.0
